EG: To aquire the mind of a great stoic and behave like one, and apply the insights to your life
[
Cool shit:


Stocism was Founded by Zeno (hom of Phoenician descent in Cyprus c. 336/s B.c.) who had taught or lectured in a well-known "stoa" (a colonnade or porch)- hence the name- in Athens
]
	The Stoics saw the world as a single great community in which all men are brothers, ruled by a supreme providence which could be spoken of, almost according to choice or context, under a variety of names or descriptions including the divine reason, creative reason, nature, the spirit or purpose of the universe, destiny, a personal god, even (by way of conceson to traditional religion) 'the gods'. It is man's duty to live in conformity with the divine will, and this means, firstly, bringing his life into line with 'nature's laws', and secondly, resigning himself completdy and uncomplainingly to whatever fate may send him. Only by living thus, and not setg too high a value on things which can at any moment be taken away from him, can he discover that true, unshake  able peace and contentment to which ambition, luxury and above all avarice are among the greatest obstacles.
	[
	divine: something to do with god 
	
	
	avarice: Strong greed
	]
		Living 'in accordance with nature ' means not only questioning convention and training ourselves to do without all except the necessities (plain food, water, basic clothing and shelter) but developing the inborn gift of reason which marks us off as different from the animal world.
		[
		Our motto, as every  one knows, is to live in conformity with nature 
		- Seneca
		]
			=> We are meant to set free or perfect this rational element
				= this particle of the universal reason, the ' divine spark' in our human make-up
				so that it may campaign against and conquer pain, grief, super  stition and the fear of death
					It will show us that 'there's nothing either good or bad but thinking makes it so', discipline the pleasures and the passions, and generalyl subordi  nate the body and emotions to the mind and soul.
		In this way we shall arrive at the true end of man
		[
		結局ほんまに一番幸せな生き方は、 being yourself, and that is, of course, part of being a human.
		]
			wisdom (or moral insight)
			courage
			self  control
			justice (or upright dealing)
			lt enables a man to be 'self-sufficient', immune to suffering, superior to the wounds and upsets of life
				Because all problems, afterall comes from not being yourself. If everyone was trully being themselvs, there would not be any problems
	To be everywhere is to be nowhere
		People who spend their whole life travelling abroad end up having plenty of places where they can fmd hospitality but no real friendships
		The same .must needs be the case with people who never set about acquiring an intimate acquaintanceship with any one great writer, but skip from one to another, paying flying visits to them all.
			This is about books ね
		To truly have something, to be great at something, you need to be with it for a long time so it can absorb into your body. That is focus
			Food that is vomited up as soon as it is eaten is not assimilated into the body and does not do one any good;
			nothing hinders a cure so much as frequent changes of treat  ment;
			plant which is frequently moved never grows strong.
			A multitude of books only gets in one's way. So if you are unable to read all the books in your possession, you have enough when you have all the books you are able to read.
			What difference does it make how much there is laid away in a man's safe or in his barns, how many head of stock he grazes or how much capital he puts out at interest, if he is always after what is another's and only counts what he has yet to get, never what he has already. You ask what is the proper limit to a person's wealth? First, having what is essential, and second, having what is enough.
			[
			if he is always after what is another's 
			
			
			Web3, generative AI etcetc..
			]
				深すぎる,,,
				aha, there is a limit to one's wealth ! Super interesting !
		So always read well  tried authors, and ifat any moment you find yourselfwanting a change from a particular author, go back to ones you have read before.
	p36, letter 7 から
